FONTLOG for the Merriweather font

This file provides detailed information on the Merriweather 
font Software.

This information should be distributed along with the 
Merriweather fonts and any derivative works.

Basic Font Information

Merriweather was designed to be a text face that 
is pleasant to read on screens.

Merriweather is evolving and will be updated.
As of now there are 4 styles: Regular, Light, Bold, 
and Black. There will also be Italic in each
of these weights. And fairly soon after that there
will also be a Sans Serif version which mirrors the
weights and styles of the Serif design.

Designed by Eben Sorkin, Merriweather features a
very large x height, slightly condensed letterforms,
a mild diagonal stress, sturdy serifs and open
forms.

Merriweather is a work in progress and
will be improved regularly. This means you can request
improvements and even fund specific features if
if they are outside of the current scope of work.

For more information and to stay updated see Eben 
Sorkin's blog and Flickr and follow the Merriweather 
Twitter microblog:

http://ebensorkin.wordpress.com

http://www.flickr.com/photos/55990250@N02/

http://twitter.com/MerriweatherFnt

Merriweather is a Unicode typeface family that supports 
languages that use the Latin script and its variants, and 
could be expanded to support other scripts.

More specifically, this release supports the following Unicode
ranges: Latin-1

To contribute to the project contact Eben Sorkin at 
sorkineben@gmail.com

ChangeLog

29 July 2011 (Eben Sorkin) Merriweather v1.3

- Altered and improved 90% of the glyphs. Some in minor ways 
  and other in fairly significant ways. For example: 
  The lc a was a small change.
  The changes to the numbers corrected weight consistency issues 
  were more significant. 
- Added glyphs to support texts originating from Windows
  ANSI and Mac Roman encodings. 
- Adjusted diacritics further
- This may be the last update to shapes before work 
  begins on the Sans. This means that VTT hinting 
  should be next.

22 July 2011 (Eben Sorkin) Merriweather v1.287
- Adusted glyph diacritics to make them work with MS Word.
- Mastered Font from Fontlab to TTF

If you make modifications be sure to add your name (N), 
email (E), web-address (if you have one) (W) and description (D). 
This list is in alphabetical order.

N: Eben Sorkin
E: sorkineben@gmail.com
W: www.sorkintype.com
D: Designer and Mastering
