Trichez, mentez, resquillez, truquez, soyez ailleurs, contrefaites les documents, jetez du LSD dans les réservoirs municipaux, construisez dans votre garage des gadgets électroniques qui surpasseront ceux qu'utilisent les autorités. Si votre écrant de télévision vous observe, bidouillez-le de telle sorte que le larbin de la police chargé de surveiller votre salon reçoive l'image de son salon à lui. Payez vos amendes en fausse monnaie, avec des chèques en bois ou des cartes de crédit volées. Si un juge vous condamne, remplacez les pilules anticonceptionnelles des sa fille par des cachets d'aspirine. Abonnez-le à des revues pornographiques. Utilisez le numéro de sa carte de crédit pour des appels téléphoniques interminables à des villes éloignées, sur d'autres planètes.

Philip K. Dick, "The Android and the Human", Convention de science-fiction de Vancouver, 1972 (quoted in : Emmanuel Carrère: "Je suis vivant et vous êtes morts", Paris, Seuil, 1993. 

The English original:
"If, as it seems, we are in the process of becoming a totalitarian society in which the state apparatus is all-powerful, the ethics most important for the survival of the true, free, human individual would be: cheat, lie, evade, fake it, be elsewhere, forge documents, build improved electronic gadgets in your garage that'll outwit the gadgets used by the authorities. If the television screen is going to watch you, rewire it late at night when you're permitted to turn it off -- rewire it in such a way that the police flunky monitoring the transmission from your living room mirrors back his living room at his house. When you sign a confession under duress, forge the name of one of the political spies who's infiltrated your model airplane club. Pay your fines in counterfeit money or rubber checks or stolen credit cards. Give a false address. Arrive at the courthouse in a stolen car. Tell the judge that if he sentences you, you will substitute aspirin tablets for his daughter's birth control pills. Or put His Honor on a mailing list for pornographic magazines. Or, if all else fails, threaten him with your using his telephone credit card number to make unnecessary long distance calls to cities on other planets."

Philip K. Dick: "The Android and the Human" – reprinted in The shifting realities of Philip K. Dick, Vintage Books, New York, 1995, pp.196-198.